Events from the latest session:

Sylvaris silently approached two Farthimers in a town square and listened to their conversation while they shoveled snow from the recent blizzard. He didn't know it yet but they were Amalia and Marx. They  discussed hard times for the town. He heard Amalia ask how long the supplies would hold out and Marx reply that it would be weeks. She clearly thought they had longer. Sylvaris heard them talk a little about what they could do but it's clear they didn't think they had options.

Sylvaris returned to the party and shared his observations. After some discussion, the party decided to approach these two as plainly and in the open as they could. The Farthimers were shocked to see strangers, and quickly asked if the Estarans had sent them. The party answered honestly -- no, they had come here on their own. They presented themselves as researchers who had unraveled the secret of the Radiant Projector and had decided to explore the cosmos. Hearing the townsfolk's dire situation, the party used their magic to produce a feast. They invited Amalia and Marx to follow them back to where they had killed a few large sabre cats, and the Farthimers agreed.

During this trek, the party learned about local history. They heard that the last Estarans had left a year ago. The locals had hoped they would return but there has been no sign. Meanwhile, the Frost Giants have gotten bolder and bolder. On realizing that some party members were fey, they told the party that its believed the Fey caused the ice age. There was some fear from the Farthimers, but the party told them some of their own world's experience with the Estarans. Cormin and Aelira came to believe that the Farthimers don't have the real history. The Estarans had kept things from the people of Aerus and may very well have done the same here. On Aerus, the mere presence of the Estarans in the Feywild caused devastation and ecological ruin. The party are convinced that there is more to this story. The Farthimers became inclined to agree.

The party are warned about the Frost Giants and the possibility of a dragon. They are told that there was a war 300 years ago and that the garrison once held 1000 estarans soldiers. They were told this world used to be a paradise.  

They are given a map of the valley with Farthim, the Garrison, and the Dead Forest clearly marked. When they returned to town, they explored the generator/barracks of the last estarans and their projection hall. They worked out that the ring around town was a shield but the core machinery is gone. They discovered the embossed star charts and heard the Estaran name for their world -- Aerus -- for the first time. They found the maps to two other worlds.

At the end of the day, the party found lodgings. Cetyri stole a private moment to let Cormin know that he feels the pull of this world's Cetyri in the direction of the garrison. The party started making plans to investigate.